=== PAGE 1 ===
StarWhisper Telescope: An AI framework for
automating end-to-end astronomical observations
Cunshi Wang12∗,Yu Zhang2,Yuyang Li12†,Xinjie Hu23,
Yiming Mao124,Xunhao Chen12,Pengliang Du2,Rui
Wang2,Ying Wu25,Hang Yang12,Yansong Li6,Beichuan
Wang12,Haiyang Mu2,Xiaohan Chen12,Shunxuan He12,
Hao Mo12,Liyue Zhang12,Lin Du12,Yunning Zhao12,
Jianfeng Tian2,Liang Ge25,Yongna Mao1,Shengming Li2,
Zheng Wang2,Xiaomeng Lu2,Jinhang Zou2,Yang
Huang12,Ningchen Sun12,Jie Zheng2,Min He2,Yu Bai25,
Junjie Jin2,Hong Wu12,Jifeng Liu125
1University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China;
2Key Laboratory of Optical Astronomy,
National Astronomical Observatories, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing, China;
3School of Computing Science, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby,
British Columbia V5A1S6, Canada;
4College of Science, Tibet University, Tibet, China;
5Institute for Frontiers in Astronomy and Astrophysics,
Beijing Normal University, Beijing, China;
6Liii Network Co., Zhejiang, China;
The exponential growth of large-scale telescope arrays has boosted time-domain
astronomy development but introduced operational bottlenecks, including labor-
intensive observation planning, data processing, and real-time decision-making. Here
we present the StarWhisper Telescope system, an AI agent framework automating
end-to-end astronomical observations for surveys like the Nearby Galaxy Super-
novae Survey. By integrating large language models with specialized function calls
and modular workflows, StarWhisper Telescope autonomously generates site-specific
∗Email:wangcunshi@nao.cas.cn
†Email:liyuyang22@mails.ucas.ac.cn
1arXiv:2412.06412v3  [astro-ph.IM]  19 Oct 2025

=== PAGE 2 ===
observation lists, executes real-time image analysis via pipelines, and dynamically
triggers follow-up proposals upon transient detection. The system reduces human in-
tervention through automated observation planning, telescope controlling and data
processing, while enabling seamless collaboration between amateur and professional
astronomers. Deployed across Nearby Galaxy Supernovae Survey’s network of 10
amateur telescopes, StarWhisper Telescope has detected transients with promising
response times relative to existing surveys. Furthermore, StarWhisper Telescope’s
scalable agent architecture provides a blueprint for future facilities like the Global
Open Transient Telescope Array, where AI-driven autonomy will be critical for
managing 60 telescopes.
1 Introduction
As time domain astronomy develops, large scientific facilities are in the planning.
The Global Open Transient Telescope Array (GOTTA1, 2, which also referred to the
SiTian project.), aims to construct 60 1-meter telescopes in its first stage to build
an array to monitor the sky. The labor cost for the observation of the GOTTA is
huge, with an estimated observation personnel sequence exceeding 200 people. Most
of the telescopes will be deployed at the Lenghu Observatory, with a latitude of about
4,200 meters. Due to the large number of telescopes, automated observations are
necessary for future time-domain surveys. With the help of a Large Language Model
(LLM) based agent, new automated observations will aid astronomers by taking the
observations and processing the data, realizing the concept of an ”AI Astronomer”.
Astronomical observation can be broadly divided into three phases: (1) observa-
tion planning, (2) observation execution, and (3) data processing. These phases are
executed sequentially, starting with planning, followed by execution, and conclud-
ing with data processing. Notably, the results of data processing feed back into the
planning phase, influencing future observation strategies and helping to optimize the
overall observational process.
The observation planning phase aims to create an observation list for each tele-
scope participating in the night’s observations. This list includes the observation time
(in UTC time), the astronomical objects to be observed, their coordinates (typically
in Right Ascension, R.A., and Declination, Dec.), and other relevant information.
Observation control is typically managed by the Observation Control System (OCS,
3), which operates based on the provided observation list and additional parameters,
such as the exposure time, number of exposures, required filters, telescope position
and focus control. The images observed by the telescope are subsequently transferred
to the data pipeline4for processing, extracting the photometric information required
by astronomers, and identifying transients as high-value objects.
The observation, planning, and data processing phases are labor-intensive and re-
quire considerable effort. Generating the observation list involves selecting the most
suitable objects from an input catalog containing more than 100,000 entries while
taking into account the object’s sky visibility at each telescope’s position. Typically,
each observation is first reviewed by the astronomer prior to being processed. The
review process involves examining nearly 20 GB of raw image data per telescope to
2

=== PAGE 3 ===
detect and confirm the presence of transient astronomical events that are of interest
to astronomers. To free astronomers from these phases with tasks, we developed the
StarWhisper Telescope (SWT) system, a LLM5, 6agent-based astronomical observa-
tion system designed to assist astronomers by efficiently managing observations across
a telescope array and saving astronomers’ time.
While LLMs have demonstrated extraordinary capabilities in many fields, tradi-
tional LLMs, such as Qwen7, 8, the GPT series9, and DeepSeek10, have not been
equipped with tools or trained with specific data for astronomical observations, and
more likely to present well-known celestial objects, no matter it can be observed or
not (See Supplementary Section 1, Observation planning by Qwen). The SWT sys-
tem addresses these challenges by integrating function calls to expand the capacities
of LLMs and LLM-enhanced workflows to infuse domain expertise.
Function calls enable LLMs to interact with external tools or systems by rec-
ognizing predefined operations, extending their capabilities beyond text generation
to perform tasks or retrieve real-time information. This functionality is developed
through training on datasets pairing input instructions with expected outputs, en-
hancing the models’ instruction-following abilities8, 9. When equipped with function
call capabilities, LLMs are often referred to as LLM-based agents, or simply agents
in these paper11–16.
LLM-enhanced workflow connects steps in a series or parallel configuration, in-
corporating tools, Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), and LLMs to handle
complex, multi-stage tasks and do function calls. Compared to traditional work-
flows17, it can process unstructured data, make flexible judgments, and adaptively
link each step of the process. This approach increases the credibility and usability
of the system through the operation and interaction logic of natural language, while
maintaining robust input/output structures11, 15, 18. The workflow in this manuscript
infers the LLM-enhanced workflow.
The SWT system is applied to the Nearby Galaxy Supernovae Survey (NGSS,
Section 2) to help the observers save time (Figure 1). The NGSS project is a
time-domain survey with 10 amateur-level telescopes, with a simplified telescope
organizational structure similar to GOTTA. In summary, the SWT observation mod-
ule (Section 3) consists of observation planning(Section 3.2), observation control
(Section 3.3) and a data pipeline (Section 3.4). Before and after observations, SWT
provides recommendations to observers through automated messages (Section 3.5).
We show the observation and execution of the SWT system in Section 4, and dis-
cuss its strengths and weaknesses in Section 5.1. The solutions to the weaknesses are
discussed in Section 5.2. The related works are referred in Supplementary Section 2,
Related Works.
2 Nearby Galaxy Supernovae Survey
As outlined in Section 1, we have developed an agent-based system named SWT,
aimed at easing the challenges associated with astronomical observations, particularly
focusing on large-scale time-domain surveys such as the GOTTA (More information
are provided in Supplementary Section 3, GOTTA). Although GOTTA is still under
3

=== PAGE 4 ===
9:0011:0011:30
12:0018:005:00
Long Waits, Competing Priorities, Researcher Fatigue
9:00 18:00 5:00
AI-Generated List
One-click Setup, Autonomous Operation, Researchers Focus on scienceDuring Day
Data ReadyObservations
Waiting, Data processingSearch for sourcesCheck TNS alerts
Any findings yesterday?Telescope ListTraditional    vs.    SWT-Enhanced
Researchers focus 
on academic work
Xinglong x7
Gansu
Yunna
Xinjiang
AI Task Interface 
√ List Completed
Create observation list
AI-Controled Observations
Figure 1 Workflow comparison between traditional observation methods and the SWT
enhanced system.The TNS stands for Transient Name Server.
development, we test the SWT system’s performance through a similar survey called
the NGSS, which features multiple sites and telescopes, thereby serving as an ideal
testing ground for GOTTA.
The NGSS aims to detect transients in nearby galaxies using amateur-level tele-
scopes. The initiative’s future roadmap involves coordinating a network of more than
500 underutilized amateur telescopes to conduct systematic time-domain sky surveys,
harnessing the collective potential of the global astronomy community. Similar to the
GOTTA, its primary function is to identify transient astronomical events, but on a
smaller scale, suitable for amateur equipment.
Several amateur telescopes have been installed at the Xinglong Observatory in
Hebei Province (40.393◦N, 117.575◦E), with additional telescopes located in Xin-
jiang (43.522◦N, 88.577◦E), Gansu (35.678◦N, 106.848◦E), and Yunnan(23.914◦N,
102.653◦E) provinces in China. These telescopes, detailed in Table 1, are equipped
with monochrome CMOS sensors and LRGB photometric filters. With their relatively
large Field of View (FoV) and apertures under 250mm, they are particularly suited for
detecting bright supernovae in nearby galaxies. On clear nights, these instruments can
observe over 500 sky fields, covering more than 3,000 nearby galaxies. Larger amateur
telescopes with apertures exceeding 250mm and narrower FoVs are used primarily for
follow-up photometry, complemented by professional telescopes like the 216-cm tele-
scope at Xinglong Observatory for follow-up spectroscopy and precise photometric
observations. Considering the power of these telescopes, this work focuses on galaxies
within 50 Mpc19and associated transient phenomena.
To reflect the operational preferences of the amateur astronomy community
as much as possible, NGSS operations utilize Nighttime Imaging ’N’ Astronomy
(N.I.N.A.) software, a widely-used automation tool among amateur astronomers. This
4

=== PAGE 5 ===
software integrates the control processes, allowing the observer to connect all equip-
ment, such as the camera, telescope, dome, and filter wheel, to execute the observation
from a given list in a specific format (a ninaTargetSet file). N.I.N.A. allows users to
develop custom plugins to meet specific needs, for example, the three point polar align-
ment. The software requires a list file to execute observations and uses ASCOM drivers
to control the entire telescope system, performing fully automatic operations includ-
ing slewing, auto-focusing, astrometric solving, capturing images, switching targets,
and returning to park position upon completion.
Telescope
NameField-of-View
(deg2)Focal Length
(mm)Pixel Scale
(arcsec pixel−1)Telescope
Location
xl-106 10.14 530 1.46 Xinglong
xl-130 2.91 990 0.784 Xinglong
xl-130-2 3.43 909 0.853 Xinglong
xl-180 4.80 502 1.54 Xinglong
xl-203 1.18 864 1.29 Xinglong
xl-250 0.18 2575 0.301 Xinglong
xl-c14 0.16 2717 1.14 Xinglong
gs-150 0.83 678 0.73 Gansu
yn-90 2.27 601 1.85 Yunnan
wlmq-107 2.47 700 2.8 Xinjiang
Table 1 Details of Amateur Telescopes Used for NGSS.The telescope name contains
two parts, ’xl’, ’yn’, ’gs’, ’wlmq’ is the place, and the rest shows the diameter or the model
number of the telescope.
3 Methods
LLM-based agents relieve researchers of repetitive tasks in scientific workflows, en-
abling a strategic shift toward high-impact intellectual contributions. For instance,
in general research contexts, these agents streamline labor-intensive processes such
as literature review, manuscript drafting, and content summarization. In astronomy,
specialized agents further augment productivity by automating critical but there are
time-consuming responsibilities, including preparing observation proposals, designing
and executing observational strategies.
The SWT system is designed to orchestrate and interface with the NGSS telescope
network through AI-driven agents, enabling autonomous control and adaptive obser-
vation workflows. Several functional workflows are interconnected with workflows and
API-driven communication protocols.
In this section, we present the architecture of the SWT system, which comprises
a central agent (Section 3.1) and four sequentially connected workflows (Figure 2):
observation planning (Section 3.2), telescope control (Section 3.3), data processing
(Section 3.4) and agent reporting (Section 3.5). The central agent is integrated with
all workflows, providing comprehensive control over each component.
Regarding the LLMs used in the SWT system, agents and workflows, we utilize
Qwen-2.520as our base model. The details of the architectures are provided in
5

=== PAGE 6 ===
Figure 2 The main structure of the SWT system.It begins with Observation Planning,
where initial observation lists are generated. The process then moves to Agent Reporting, which
incorporates updates from the Transient Name Server (TNS) report and the transients found by the
data processing module. This procedure also allows manual revision and injects new targets into the
observation list. These plans are then operated by the telescopes via the Observation Control module,
in which the weather station can send commands to halt the observation. The Data Processing phase
is designed to find transients from a data pipeline.
the Supplementary Section 4, Detail and Prompt Design of NGSS Agent; Section 5,
Observation Planning and Section 6, Auxiliary tools.
3.1 Central Agent
The SWT system adopts a modular workflow architecture designed to automate astro-
nomical observation tasks while maintaining flexibility for human intervention. Built
upon a distributed processing paradigm, the SWT system integrates 8 specialized
workflows that operate through coordinated API communications, parameter-driven
task routing, and AI-enhanced decision layers.
The core architecture features a central agent (NGSS Agent) acting as the cognitive
hub, which dynamically orchestrates sub-workflows based on real-time user requests,
environmental conditions, and observational constraints.
The eight workflows and their structure are as follows:
•Central Workflow: The central workflow orchestrates the overall system oper-
ations, including setting parameters, managing memory buffers, handling LLM
models, and invoking tools via a central Agent.
•Observation Planning: This workflow generates observation plans, communicates
with the local server, and produces a log Uniform Resources Locator (URL) and
the task Universally Unique Identifier.
•Observation List Query: This workflow allows users to query observation plans
for a specific site and date.
•Transient Loading: This workflow handles the viewing and addition of transient
sources and provides links to identification and image results.
•Target Addition: This workflow enables users to add new astronomical targets
(including targets from Transient Name Server, TNS) to the observation list and
provides a summary of the results.
•Plan Loading: This workflow loads observation plan files into the telescope’s
N.I.N.A. software.
6

=== PAGE 7 ===
Figure 3 Schematic diagram illustrating the construction of the observation list for the
NGSS.Regular rectangles denote tools, while rounded rectangles represent agents powered by LLM.
All orange boxes indicate input information. The constraints tool calculates both altitude and moon
distance limitations. Once objects are manually added, the finalized list is saved to the server.
•Telescope Control: This workflow controls the start and end of telescope
observation actions via API calls.
•Weather Monitoring: This workflow retrieves and summarizes weather data to
ensure suitable observing conditions.
We show the details and the prompt design for the main agent in Supplementary
Section 4, Detail and Prompt Design of NGSS Agent.
3.2 Observation Planning
The observation planning workflow is designed to create observation lists for 10 tele-
scopes across four sites in NGSS. Further details of this workflow can be found in
Figure 3.
The observation planning is done by a function call to trigger the workflow, and
sequentially trigger the generation of a day’s plan. The workflow first generates an
empty observation list based on the configuration files. The configuration file includes
the pre-set observation parameters, including but not least the exposure, tracking, fo-
cusing and guiding settings, filter configurations, slewing and readout time, is designed
to improve the workflow’s robustness. The workflow then fills the empty observation
lists with sources in the input catalog, or the previous observation lists. The site po-
sition and several constraints will be considered during planning, and the final plan
will be revised by the astronomer.
More details of Observation Planning are shown in Supplementary Section 5,
Observation Planning.
3.3 Observation control
After the generated observation list is reviewed by an astronomer, it will be transferred
to the appropriate format and sent to N.I.N.A. to start the observation (Figure 4).
7

=== PAGE 8 ===
Figure 4 Schematic diagram of the observation component in the NGSS.Regular rect-
angles denote tools, while hexagons represent hardware facilities. All orange boxes indicate input
information, and green boxes correspond to output results. The observation list will be transformed
into a ninaTargetSet file for N.I.N.A. to read and take control of the observation. The data will be
simultaneously processed by a data pipeline. The weather station at Xinglong Observatory can auto-
matically halt the observation by commands to N.I.N.A.. The transients found will be reported after
data processing.
We built a N.I.N.A. plugin based on the Site Plugin21(https://nighttime-imaging.
eu/docs/master/site/contributing/plugins/) with the functions of loading ninaTar-
getSet, an observation list format that can be read by N.I.N.A., and starting and
stopping observation via a User Datagram Protocol message. The ninaTargetSet con-
tains more information about the hardware, such as the settings of exposure, focusing,
filters, and guiding. These settings are injected through the transformation between
the JSON observation list to the ninaTargetSet for each object. By default, every two
hours, the automatic focusing will be enabled, and 30 new bias images will be taken.
At the predetermined time (the end of astronomical twilight), the agent issue com-
mands by sending corresponding messages, which then triggers the plugin to initiate
observations. Observations are automatically terminated at the onset of astronom-
ical dawn. Additionally, the API from the compact weather site is integrated with
the agent, enabling the automatic suspension of observations in response to adverse
weather conditions.
3.4 Data pipeline
The raw image taken by the telescopes will be processed in the data pipeline to find
transients and send alerts. Usually, the follow-up spectroscopy observation proposal
will be sent to the 216-cm telescope (at Xinglong Observatory), and manually do the
follow-up observation since its not linked to the SWT system.
Xinglong - Observatory Popular Science Telescope Pipeline (X - OPSTEP,22) is
the data pipeline for NGSS. It can automatically and real-time process the raw image
data, including image pre-processing, astrometry, photometry, and image subtraction.
After the observation process by N.I.N.A., the raw image will be sent back to the
server at the Xinglong observatory, then X-OPSTEP will be triggered as long as the
8

=== PAGE 9 ===
new raw data is received. X-OPSTEP first performs bias and flat correction, and then
solves for the image world coordinate system information withAstrometry.net23.
After that, the photometry process will be done by SExtractor24, and the resulting
catalog will be cross-matched with GAIA DR325to conduct flux calibration. The
pipeline will then combine the same target for the same band By using SWarp26
with 3-σclipping median combination to get rid of contamination from any satellites.
Finally, we useHOTPANTS27to subtract the template image from the science image
and cut out the target galaxies. See figure 5 for an example. A real-bogus model
is applied to check the subtracted image. The model, similar to Shi et al., 202528,
using a 64×64 difference image as input, predicting through a ResNet + attention
architecture, achieves 99.12% validation accuracy.
3.5 Suggestions Given by the AI agent
The photometric data and image subtraction result will be read by the SWT system.
The SWT system evaluates multiple options to assign, remove, or replace specific
galaxies in the observation lists. Typically, it recommends that the user adopt the ob-
servation lists from the previous day to form continuous monitoring of these galaxies.
These galaxies are flagged and reassigned to the observation list. Similarly, galax-
ies with detected transients are also highlighted and included in the subsequent
observation list for continuous imaging.
Once a transient is detected, its coordinates and associated information are trans-
mitted to the user via a web interface. If the Agent is unable to retrieve any information
about the object, it will recommend that the user submit the object to the TNS. The
SWT system will also send a message about the transient to the XingLong chat group,
including information about the source and an observation suggestion generated by
the LLM.
We show some auxiliary tools in Supplementary Section 6.
4 Results
The SWT system has been actively operating on NGSS telescopes since October 2024,
successfully detecting several transients. The majority of these transients are initially
reported by other open surveys, and we cross-matched them with our observational
data, and found some transients bright enough to be detected. Some transients have
observing time earlier than the discovery time reported, but not detected due to large
background noises or detected before explosion. Details of these transients are shown
in Table 2.
As shown in Table 2, during the early test observations, the actual detection time
for transients lagged approximately one day behind the TNS reporting time. This
delay is primarily attributed to the manual maintenance at the beginning of NGSS,
at the time when the manpower can only afford two to three telescopes.
However, after deploying SWT system, the detection time of brighter transients,
such as AT2024abqt, SN2024advj, and SN2025bl, trailed the TNS reporting time by
only a few hours. Notably, AT2025pk, a flare star, represents the first transient event
successfully identified through the SWT system.
9

=== PAGE 10 ===
Transient
NameOur
First
DetectionTNS
Report
DateTransient
TypeRedshift
( z )Discovery
Telescope
SN2024xin 2024-10-07 2024-10-05 SN Ia 0.019 xl-106
SN2024xlh 2024-10-07 2024-10-06 SN II 0.03 xl-106
SN2024xli 2024-10-07 2024-10-06 SN Ia 0.037 xl-106
SN2024xqe 2024-10-10 2024-10-09 SN Ia 0.034 xl-106
SN2024xvg 2024-10-10 2024-10-10 SN Ia 0.03 xl-250
AT2024abqt 2024-11-21 2024-11-21 CV - xl-130-2
SN2024advj 2024-12-11 2024-12-11 SN IIn 0.017 xl-106
SN2025bl 2025-01-04 2025-01-04 SN II 0.009 xl-130-2
AT2025pk 2025-01-17 2025-01-17 Flare Candidate - xl-130-2
Table 2 Details of Transients Detected by NGSS.The first detection date is the date on
which the transient was detected based on the image subtraction. The ’-’ in redshift means no
data reported. The TNS is the Transient Name Server plateform, and the types are Super
Novae (SN), Cataclysmic Variable (CV).
Figure 5 The discovery confirmation images of AT2025pk.The images are shown from left
to right are template, science, and difference image. The title contains object name (OBJNAME),
background magnitude (BMAG), the pixel position of AT2025pk, Right Ascension (ra), Declination
(dec), and the hour angles in hour-minute-second (hms) and degree-arcminute-arcsecond (dms).
Figure 5 shows the transient source identification images provided by the SWT
system. Bright transient sources are evident in both the science and difference im-
ages. Through visual inspection, we search for suspicious bright spots in the images
and cross-check to exclude asteroids or comets, thereby enabling the discovery of
transients.
The application of the SWT system in NGSS has greatly improved work efficiency.
The observation plan was completely generated manually in the beginning phase of
NGSS. To quantitatively evaluate the performance of the SWT system, we conduct a
controlled comparison between manually generated and SWT-generated observation
plans under identical conditions. The observation site is considered as Xinglong. The
results (Table 4) show that SWT reduce the planning time from about 1.5 hours (PhD
level) to less than 1 minute, with better target coverage counts and zero conflicts,
demonstrating both efficiency and robustness.
10

=== PAGE 11 ===
Metric Manual (PhD student) SWT System
Planning time per telescope 1 - 1.5 hours <1 minute
Number of galaxy coverage on
the same day2000 - 2500 2500 - 3000
Conflict rate per list 1 - 3 0
Requires manual adjustment Frequently needed Not required
Reproducibility / Consistency Depends on operator Fully deterministic
Adaptability to constraints Limited Sites, visibility, and moon
phase
Table 3 Comparison between manual and SWT system for observation planning.The
manual plan is generated by a PhD student, with galaxy coverage based on the combined
10-telescope array. The conflict rate reflects the number of galaxies observed more than once in a
single list. The time refers to the period when observable galaxies can be distributed across the
telescopes. Manual adjustment of the SWT plan is only applied when target changes are needed. In
manual planning, it is difficult for humans to account for all constraints simultaneously.
We evaluated the success rate of SWT system by cycling through the following
prompts and querying the agent round by round: (1) Please make an observation plan;
(2) Please check today’s log of making observation plan; (3) Please check the observa-
tion plan; (4) Please check the transients; (5) Please add them to the observation list;
(6) Please load the observation lists to each telescope. These queries are commonly
used among observers when interacting with the agent. The programs for starting or
stopping observations have been prohibited from running during the test to avoid any
potential risk of system damage.
The agent has been asked 7,620 rounds, of which 4,194 involved tool calling, and
the tool has been called 2,962 times successfully, showing the overall function call
success rate is approximately 70.5%. The number of function calls is less than the
number of queries because not all queries need to make function calls. The success rates
of the observation planning and observation list querying tools have achieved 100%.
For loading transient or input sources and telescope-controlling tools, the success rates
range between 60% and 70%. The loading observation plan for the telescope tool has
a relatively low success rate of approximately 30%. These issues are mainly caused by
the network latency, and lead to an overtime failure. The test is conducted over two
days, and the total running cost is about 871.6 minutes, involving about 58.6 million
tokens cost. Tokens are a basic unit of text processed by LLMs, providing the context
for usage in our workflow. This amount of tokens is about 14 dollars at cloud services.
The example of usage of the SWT is shown in Supplementary Section 7.
5 Discussion
In the previous Section 3, we show the construction of the SWT system. In this section,
we first introduce the strengths and challenges of the system in Section 5.1. We then
make a future plan at Section 5.2 to solve the technical issues we faced, and the path
to an AI Astronomer.
11

=== PAGE 12 ===
5.1 Strengths and Weakness
Astronomical observations have traditionally demanded specialized expertise; how-
ever, our agent-integrated system substantially lowers the entry barrier by enabling
natural language interaction and real-time process monitoring. This innovative ap-
proach not only accelerates the onboarding process for novice observers but also
empowers experienced astronomers to efficiently manage multiple telescopes simulta-
neously, thereby considerably improving observational productivity.
The development of standardized protocols, such as Agent-to-Agent29, which allow
agents to interact with another agent, among different agents, lays a solid foundation
for cluster control designed based on multi-agent system games. It enables seamless
customization for a wide range of survey projects and adaptability to various ob-
servational strategies, including dynamic updates to observation lists and real-time
control.
We also identify several limitations of the current system and discuss how they
may be addressed or what lessons have been learned.
Automated hardware
The dome of NGSS is not automated and must be opened or closed manually, ren-
dering automatic observation halting partly ineffective. At Xinglong Observatory, this
issue is mitigated by sending warnings to the observers of the GOTTA pathfinder,
which shares the same dome. However, for telescopes located at other sites — typ-
ically housed in amateur domes situated on villagers’ rooftops — dome operations
cannot be controlled remotely. Dome management at these locations relies entirely on
the cooperation of local residents who rent out their rooftop space. Similarly, flat ex-
posure must currently be taken manually, due to the lack of automation. At present,
we have created standard template flat images to ensure basic data quality in Gansu,
Yunnan, and Xinjiang telescopes. Looking forward, integrating automated hardware
will be a feasible solution for telescopes at Xinglong Observatory. However, for re-
mote amateur sites, achieving full automation remains a considerable challenge due
to logistical and infrastructural constraints.
Hardware failures
The SWT system is currently unable to automatically resolve hardware failures. Com-
mon issues include focuser freeze due to cold weather, wiring disconnections, and
computer memory crashes, with the latter two being the most frequent. At present,
these problems are resolved manually by on-site observers. In the future, the system
could be enhanced to provide troubleshooting suggestions through an intelligent agent.
This would be achieved by analyzing observation logs written by observers, which the
SWT system could access using Retrieval-Augmented Generation30or a Model Con-
text Protocol. Retrieval-Augmented Generation is a technique that enhances LLM by
retrieving information from a specified dataset, considerably improving accuracy and
relevance in specific domains. Model Context Protocol is a protocol designed to define
contextual interactions for tools or datasets, aiming to standardize communication
and integration between models and external resources. For larger telescopes, con-
tinuous monitoring systems could be implemented to collect standardized telemetry
12

=== PAGE 13 ===
data, allowing the agent to assess telescope status and detect anomalies in real time.
However, for telescopes located outside of Xinglong Observatory — particularly those
hosted in amateur setups — there are currently no feasible conditions for immediate
or automated fixes due to limited infrastructure and remote locations.
Software crashes
The SWT system currently lacks the ability to automatically resolve low-level soft-
ware crashes, such as those occurring in applications like N.I.N.A. and X-OPSTEP.
These incidents are typically infrequent but often stem from human-driven overuse
of server resources—such as running multiple memory-intensive programs simultane-
ously, which exceeds available storage capacity. Automated solutions for these types of
failures are not considered a high priority, mainly due to their rarity and the challenges
associated with changing operator workflows or upgrading server specifications. While
agent-based monitoring of the software environment could potentially detect and miti-
gate such issues, it introduces considerable security risks by requiring privileged access
(e.g., through tools like Code Interpreter). An alternative approach involves training
a GUI agent31to monitor graphical interfaces and respond to anomalies. However,
this method requires substantial GPU memory resources, making it impractical for
deployment at scale in large observatory operations.
Standardized telescopes
The current lack of standardization among telescopes in the NGSS network intro-
duces operational inconsistencies, particularly in manual observation practices. Two
key challenges emerge for the SWT. First, the varying FoVs across different telescopes
affect overall sky coverage. The input catalog is currently designed based on the small-
est FoV to maintain uniformity, which results in larger FoV telescopes potentially
observing adjacent or overlapping regions and inadvertently covering galaxies already
targeted by smaller FoV instruments. This leads to a reduction in total effective sky
coverage compared to manually generated plans. A new tool is being developed to
shift the planning focus from individual galaxy selection to maximizing sky coverage,
which is expected to improve this limitation. Second, differences in hardware relia-
bility across telescope types result in varied failure patterns, making it more difficult
to implement consistent fault detection and recovery strategies. Standardization of
both hardware and software components is therefore essential not only for improving
system usability and agent-instrument interaction, but also for enabling scalable de-
ployment. As the NGSS network expands with more standardized nodes, it will achieve
broader sky coverage, enhancing its scientific and educational capabilities. Further-
more, standardization reduces operational complexity by minimizing labor-intensive
maintenance and improves data consistency by reducing instrumental variation across
observational outputs.
13

=== PAGE 14 ===
5.2 Future works
Edge Computing
Integrating edge computing modules with telescope systems offers a promising solu-
tion to latency issues in server-to-server communication, enabling telescopes to make
autonomous decisions and improving operational responsiveness and control stability.
By deploying lightweight agent services and AI models locally—such as on industrial
personal computers equipped with edge devices like the NVIDIA Jetson—real-time
decision-making and task execution can be achieved with minimal reliance on remote
servers or cloud infrastructure.
Observation monitoring
A future observation monitoring module is crucial for ensuring the reliability of unat-
tended observatories. It will use sensors to collect real-time data on the telescope’s
physical state, including vibration (e.g., sounds from the equatorial mount), tem-
perature, humidity, and electronic signals, to assess its operational status. When
an anomaly is detected, the module will evaluate its severity and respond ac-
cordingly—automatically resolving low-severity issues through control commands or
warning the observers with guidance for more serious problems.
We will collect operational data from the GOTTA prototype, a 1-m diameter
prototype telescope for GOTTA (See more information in Supplementary Section 3,
GOTTA), to generate training samples for various types of errors and malfunctions.
These data will be used to construct a knowledge graph based on observer handbooks,
aiming to enable automated monitoring and maintenance instructions—capabilities
that are currently limited in existing systems. This effort will also include building a
comprehensive dataset containing videos from cameras near the telescope, observation
logs, and hardware manuals, which will serve as valuable training material for LLM-
based agents assisting in system maintenance.
This dataset serves as a Retrieval-Augmented Generation-based memory mod-
ule, integrating operational logs, interaction histories with observation assistants, and
user behavioral profiles. These multi-source data are transformed into vector embed-
dings, enabling the retrieval of contextually relevant information during inference.
By continuously learning from past successes, failures, and user-specific patterns, the
system dynamically refines its responses, adapts to individual preferences, and sup-
ports distributed intelligence across edge computing nodes (e.g., telescope-mounted
devices).
Path to AI Astronomer
Figure 6 shows the methodology used by the AI Astronomer. For the telescopes that
conduct sky surveys, it will get data from their real-time observation, and command
the follow-up spectroscopy telescope to observe.
In Figure 6, the red blocks represent AstroInsight, an idea generation system
which built on the integration of LLM-based agents and astronomical datasets. It
will generate scientific ideas based on knowledge from databases such as ArXiv or
Astrophysics Data System, and selects optimal methodologies for validation.
14

=== PAGE 15 ===
Figure 6 The iterated process of AI Astronomer.The red blocks are about the StarWhisper
automatic scientific discovery system. The green blocks are the observation part, where we are trying
to build the embodied telescope. The blue blocks show the StarWhisper scientific writing workflow.
The OCS stands for the Observation Control System.
For feasible plans requiring new data, the green blocks—enhanced by reason-
ing models like DeepSeek R132—support operations across the NGSS project,
GOTTA, and 216-cm-telescope. This integration enables reasoned task dispatch and
observation coordination, with acquired data feeding directly into AutoASTRO, the
automated data processing and machine learning pipeline. The blue blocks represent
the StarWhisper’s scientific writing workflow, which transforms analytical outputs
into structured narratives. This workflow forms a closed-loop feedback system, where
the results of scientific writing are fed back into the idea generation module (red
blocks), enabling continuous iteration and knowledge refinement.
Acknowledgments
The research presented in this paper was generously funded by the National
Programs on Key Research and Development Project, with specific contributions
from grant numbers 2019YFA0405504 and 2019YFA0405000. This research is sup-
ported by National Key R&D Program of China (grant No. 2023YFA1609700 and
2023YFA1608304). Additional support came from the National Natural Science Foun-
dation of China (NSFC) under grants NSFC-11988101, 11973054, 12090040, 12090041,
12403022 11903054, 12261141690 and 11933004. We also received backing from the
Strategic Priority Program of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, granted under
XDB41000000, XDB0550000, XDB0550100 and XDB0550102. Special acknowledg-
ment goes to the China Manned Space Project for their science research grant, denoted
by NO.CMS-CSST-2021-B07. The research is also supported by National Astronomi-
cal Observatories Chinese Academy of Sciences No. E4TG2001 and Key R&D Program
of Zhejiang (2024SSYS0006).
JFL extends gratitude for the support received from the New Cornerstone Science
Foundation, particularly via the NewCornerstone Investigator Program, and the honor
of the XPLORER PRIZE.
15

=== PAGE 16 ===
Author Contribution
Cunshi Wang contributed the coding, agent construction, and the writing of the
manuscript. Yu Zhang and Xinjie Hu contributed the coding, agent construction.
Yiming Mao contributed the test on NGSS project. Xunhao Chen contributed the X-
OPSTEP pipeline. Pengliang Du contributed the data transmission and connections
between telescopes to agents. Rui Wang contributed setup and operation of the tele-
scopes. Yuyang Li contributed the design of the structure, prompt engineering for the
SWT system. Ying Wu contributed the design NGSS array and the design of N.I.N.A.
plugin. Hang Yang contributed the edge calculation of the system. Yansong Li con-
tributed the writing of the manuscript. Beichuan Wang contributed the TNS search
module and the observation of these telescopes. Haiyang Mu, Xiaohan Chen, Shunx-
uan He, Hao Mo, Liyue Zhang, Lin Du, and Yunning Zhao contributed the operation
and maintenance of SWT system on NGSS. Jianfeng Tian, Liang Ge, Shengming Li,
Xiaomeng Lu contributed the design of the structure on embodied telescope and the
future of SWT system. Zheng Wang, Jinhang Zou contributed the design of GOTTA
pathfinder OCS and provide insights in the observation based on agents. Yongna
Mao, Yang Huang, Ningchen Sun, Jie Zheng, Min He, Yu Bai, Junjie Jin, Hong Wu,
Jifeng Liu contributed the support the SWT system and administrative and resource
support.
Data availability
We have uploaded the codes, prompts, tools, and supporting materials to GitHub at
https://github.com/Yu-Yang-Li/StarWhisper/tree/main/NGSS.
The StarWhisper’s scientific writing workflow can be found in the Coze
store at https://www.coze.cn/store/agent/7383556199616135179?utm source=ai-bot.
cn. See https://www.coze.cn/store/agent/7383556199616135179?utm source=ai-bot.
cn&bid=6f7h1ou4k7g19&post id=7396577135529394202 for the user handbook.
Code availability
See https://github.com/Yu-Yang-Li/StarWhisper/tree/main/NGSS for the usage of
the codes.
Ethics Declarations
We declare no competing interests.
6 Supplementary: Observation planning by Qwen
The observation plans generated by popular use models often focus on well-known
celestial objects, such as the Andromeda Galaxy (M31) or the Triangulum Galaxy
(M33), without considering crucial factors like the season or the observation time
specified in the prompt.
16

=== PAGE 17 ===
We asked Qwen-max-202412 model, the model with the highest ability for Qwen
series models at December 2024, to show us 10 galaxies to observe in Beijing, at 16th
Jan. 2025, and mentioned that we can only observe the object with a higher than 30
degrees at night. The result is shown in Table 4.
The Qwen models currently do not include specialized astronomical planning func-
tions and are unable to provide precise observation times. Instead, they offer broader
time ranges, such as ”Evening,” ”Night,” or ”Early Morning,” which may not fully
align with the specific needs of observational astronomy. Additionally, some targets,
such as the ”Leo Triplet,” ”Messier 96 Group,” or ”Virgo Cluster,” represent extended
sky regions that cannot be fully observed within a single telescope field of view. Upon
reviewing the rise, transit, and set times of these targets, it appears that the gen-
erated observation plan does not closely correspond to the approximate observation
times suggested by Qwen.
7 Supplementary: Related works
Here, we summarize several related works:
7.1 Large language models
LLMs have demonstrated extraordinary capabilities in natural language conversa-
tions7, 9, 10, 33, coding, and even contributing to scientific discoveries34, especially
through the use of chain-of-thought prompting18. The GPT series models6, 9
have been leaders among LLMs, excelling in various aspects such as chat models,
instruction-following ability, coding skills, etc. They are also among the first models
used to construct agents15. However, these models are closed-source and unable to
meet the local deployment requirements in scenarios that demand data privacy and
security. As an alternative, we mainly used the open-source models as the LLM engine,
especially the DeepSeek series models10and the Qwen series models7, 8.
In terms of agents, Langchain ChatChat15is driven by evolving technical re-
quirements and practical constraints, implementing basic agent interactions through
function registration. However, it has inherent limitations in system scalability and
multi-task processing capabilities. AgentScope35is a code-driven multi-agent orches-
tration paradigm. This architectural shift facilitated complex task execution, including
cross-domain knowledge synthesis and multi-step reasoning workflows. However, the
increased development complexity associated with this approach necessitated further
optimization of the development lifecycle.
Coze is a no-code platform, but its cloud-only model was unsuitable for our on-
premises needs. Dify36is a containerized solution deployable via Docker. Though it
has limited code modularization and Python package restrictions, the agent workflows
can be constructed using local FastAPI services.
n8n17has strong local integration and extensible AI interface. Although its native
AI features are limited, combining it with Dify enabled a hybrid architecture that
balances efficiency and complexity. Given its flexibility and adaptability, we adopted
n8n as the foundational framework for the SWT system.
17

=== PAGE 18 ===
Approximate time Target name Raise time Decent time Transit time
Evening Andromeda Galaxy (M31) -∼22 : 40∼17 : 00
Evening Cigar Galaxy (M82)∼18 : 40 -∼02 : 00
Evening Bode’s Galaxy (M81)∼19 : 00 -∼02 : 00
Night Pinwheel Galaxy (M101)∼00 : 20 -∼06 : 40
Night Owl Nebula (M97)∼21 : 40 -∼04 : 00
Night Leo Triplet (M65, M66, NGC 3628)∼23 : 40 -∼04 : 00
Night Messier 96 Group (including M95, M96, and M105)∼21 : 10 -∼03 : 00
Night Sombrero Galaxy (M104)∼03 : 00 -∼05 : 00
Night Coma Berenices Cluster (Melotte 111)∼00 : 00 -∼05 : 00
Early morning Virgo Cluster (including M84, M85, M86, M87, etc.)∼00 : 50 -∼05 : 00
Early morning Antennae Galaxies (NGC 4038 / NGC 4039)∼03 : 50∼05 : 20∼04 : 30
Early morning Black Eye Galaxy (M64)∼01 : 00 -∼05 : 20
Table 4 The observation list given by Qwen.The date is 2025-01-06, situated at Beijing, and
mentioned that the object with height lower than 30 degrees are not observable. The column
’Approximate time’ and ’Target name’ are given by Qwen-max-202412 model. The column ’Raise
time’, ’Descent time’ are all given by calculation from python with a 10 minute time gap, and
defined as the raise or descent to 30 degree height. For all the times, ’-’ means the time is not at
night. For example, the raise or descent happens at noon. The time after 00:00 is in the next day,
January 17, 2025, and they belong to the same night.18

=== PAGE 19 ===
7.2 Astronomical observation
The traditional means for observation execution is via the OCS interfacing with in-
struments. Over time, improvements are usually made to the control system by adding
in more automation37, 38. The philosophy behind OCS has always been focused on
becoming more robotic39, 40, rather than employing AI methods, which may assist
and lower the barrier of entry for novice astronomers. AI cosmologist41is an advanced
framework constructed using LLM-empowered agents designed to autonomously per-
form data analysis and generate scientific papers in the field of cosmology; however,
its current capabilities do not extend to the planning and execution of observational
tasks, which remain outside the scope of its automated workflow.
8 Supplementary: GOTTA
The immediate goal of SWT system is to refine the AI-operated observation, paving
the way for future advancements tailored for the GOTTA initiative. We introduce the
GOTTA in this section.
GOTTA1also named as the SiTian project in China, while SiTian means the
officials of the Imperial Astronomical Bureau in ancient China. GOTTA designed to
employ over sixty 1-m diameter telescopes across various locations around the world,
aims to capture data from more than 10,000 square degrees of sky area per night. It
addresses the challenge of observing the extremely early stages of astronomical events,
such as supernovae, kilonovae, and tidal destruction events. A distinctive feature of
GOTTA is its capability to conduct photometric time-domain observations using a
network of 1-m telescopes.
The telescopes will be organized into observation nodes, each comprising three
telescopes equipped withg,r, andiband filters, enabling simultaneous multi-band
observation of a single sky area. Each telescope will have a FoV of 25 square degrees,
with an observation cycle lasting 30 minutes for the entire array. The system will also
include several 6-m follow-up spectroscopic telescopes specifically aimed at capturing
rapid alerts for transient sources like supernovae. With a limiting magnitude under
21 mag, the system will ensure detailed observations of faint celestial objects. The
scalability of the project will allow for enhanced observing modes and survey efficiency
as more telescope arrays are added. The GOTTA “Brain” will oversee observation
planning, integrated planning, data analysis, and storage.
At present, GOTTA utilizes three 30-cm GOTTA pathfinder telescopes (referred
to as mST from the previous SiTian project, and namely, the mini-SiTian Array,2, 42)
and a 1-m prototype to do the previous test for the operation and maintenance of
the GOTTA array. The three mST are equipped withg,r,ibands individually, and
generate three raw images simultaneously. The 1-m GOTTA prototype is constructed
at Xinglong Observatory, using a four-piece mosaic CMOS, since there is only one
prototype at present, no filters are applied. Three new GOTTA telescopes are under
construction at Lenghu Observatory.
The previous telescopes are constructed for training42, OCS development3, and
pipeline refinement4. Function call-based control tests have been performed on the
19

=== PAGE 20 ===
mST telescopes using a developed TCP communication protocol for transmitting
observational data and loading observation lists.
During testing, the mST interface was utilized for agent communication, with the
list including several gravitational wave event candidates and a fixed sky area. Obser-
vational tasks could be manually customized by specifying exposure times, number of
exposures, and other parameters such as object name, right ascension (R.A.), decli-
nation (Dec.), image type, and priority. The resulting images were communicated to
the LLM after completing the exposure. This setup allowed for efficient task prioriti-
zation and execution, ensuring that all added sources were observed with the highest
priority.
9 Supplementary: Detail and Prompt Design of
NGSS Agent
9.1 Details
These workflows are directly integrated with the central agent, although certain func-
tions share the same API but operate with different input parameters. This design
enhances the stability and reliability of the LLM in invoking tools through function
calls. For instance, the Transient Loading and Target Addition modules utilize the
same API to add new targets to the observation list. Similarly, the Plan Loading and
Telescope Control modules both interact with an API to send messages to N.I.N.A.,
albeit with different message content tailored to their specific tasks.
The details of the eight workflows in the central agent are as follows:
•Central Workflow: The central workflow contains multiple functions, such as set-
ting parameters, memory buffers, LLM models, tool calls, etc. In this workflow, we
define the system prompt by detailing the agent’s role, global parameters, capabil-
ities, and limitations. The agent is responsible for processing user requests related
to astronomical observations, invoking the appropriate tools as needed. These tools
are encapsulated within sub-workflows, enabling tasks such as querying observation
plans, loading files, controlling the telescope, and more.
•Observation Planning: The observation planning workflow is responsible for gen-
erating the observation plan, communicating with the local server through HTTP
requests, updating site information, and triggering observation plan generation.
Once the workflow is triggered, it will ultimately generate a response that includes
log Uniform Resource Locator (URL) and the Universally Unique Identifier gener-
ated by Python for the task. Automatic tasks can be performed periodically, such
as triggering observation plan generation at 9 o’clock every day.
•Observation List Query: The observation list query workflow queries the list to
view the observation plan for the specified site and date. The user provides the site
and the date as parameters, and the workflow returns a URL, allowing the user to
manually access the results.
•Transient Loading: Manages the viewing and addition of transient sources while
generating relevant links to enable users to access identification and image results.
20

=== PAGE 21 ===
The workflow encompasses parameter extraction and API calls, culminating in the
use of an AI agent to summarize the operation outcomes.
•Target Addition: The target addition workflow allows users to add new sources
to the observation list. The sources are provided in the format of object name, or
RA and Dec by the user, and an HTTP request is made to invoke the back-end
API. Subsequently, an AI agent is employed to summarize the operation results,
detailing both successful and failed sources provided, along with explanations of
potential causes for any failures.
•Plan Loading: The plan loading workflow handles file transfers for loading observa-
tion plan files into the telescope’s N.I.N.A. software. The workflow uses information
extraction nodes to extract parameters from user input, generate URLs, and invoke
the relevant APIs through HTTP requests.
•Telescope Control: The telescope control workflow is designed to control the
start and end of telescope observation actions. The workflow receives the action
parameter, constructs the corresponding API link, and sends the HTTP request.
•Weather Monitoring: The weather monitoring workflow retrieves weather data
from the specified API, including parameters such as temperature, humidity, and
dew point, and processes and summarizes the information. This workflow is also
used for monitoring to ensure that conditions remain suitable for observations.
Additionally, if adverse weather conditions are detected, warnings will be sent and
the observation can be halted through theTelescope Controlworkflow.
9.2 Prompt
The prompt of NGSS Agent engineering follows a structured template comprising
6 core components: Character, Goal, Global parameter definition, Skill, Values, and
Restrictions.
The complete system prompt is structured as follows (Prompt 1):
# Character
You are a senior astronomical observation consultant who is good at making telescopic star
observation plans. You are good at making comprehensive use of various tools and logical
judgments to arrange observation plans for each telescope at each observatory station and
provide applicable NINA software observation lists. You need to use the tools to complete the
task as much as possible, not the Agents own capabilities.
# Goal
- Accurately understand and analyze the needs of users.
- Quickly and accurately invoke the appropriate tools as required.
- Ensure that the tool is used as expected by the user.
# Global parameter definition
1. station: indicates the full lowercase Chinese spelling of the station name. The optional value is
xinglong, gansu, yunnan, yunnan_chuxiong, all (where all indicates all stations), and the
format is a string
2. query_dt: The date in the YYYYMMDD format is a string
3. telescope: The number of the telescope (for example, 1, 2, 3) in the format num
# Skills
## Skill 1: Make an observation plan
### Workflow
First, call the Make_Observation_Plan tool
The second step is to return the following two messages to the user:
- uuid: specifies the unique number of the process that makes an observation plan
21

=== PAGE 22 ===
- url: specifies the URL of the log information for making observation plans. (Output the log
information directly.)
## Skill 2: View the observation plan
### trigger condition
The user clearly expresses the result of viewing the observation plan/final observation plan.
### function
This skill can help users view the specific date of an observation site, and the observation plan of
a specific telescope.
### Workflow:
First, ask the user for the station and the date (query_dt).
Second, call the tool Get_OB_List to get the URL to view the observation plan
The third step is to return the URL to the user (please output it directly) and prompt the user to
click on the planned link to complete the view.
The third step is to ask the user "Do you want NINA software to load this observation plan file?" If
the user say yes, continue calling Skill 3: Loading the observation plan file.
## Skill 3: Load the observation plan file
## Skill 4: Control NINA Telescope
## Skill 5: Add observation objects
### trigger condition
If and only if the user clearly expresses adding observation objects or modifying observation lists
### function
Add a new observation object to the observation list
### Workflow
The first step is to ask the user what target to add
Second, call the Add_Observation_Object tool
The third step is to return the reply after the tool.
## Skill 6: View a transient source for a particular day, or add a transient source to today’s watch
list
### trigger condition
The user expressed the need to view the observation results of previous day, image subtraction
results, temporary source forecasts, and other descriptions
### function
This ability allows you to view subtracting results from images for a given day and transient source
forecasts.
### How to use
Step 1: Ask the user for the station site station, date query_dt, and telescope number Telescope
Step 2: Call the Transient_load tool to complete the task of adding the transient source forecast
for a certain day to the observation list.
Step 3: Output the results.
# Values
- User needs first, always to meet user needs as the goal.
# Restrictions
- Must follow the requirements and instructions from the user, and accurately call the corresponding
tools.
- Answer only queries related to astronomical observations, not other types of questions.
- Query the observation plan list, do not execute skill 1.
- Answer in the language in which the user asks.
- Make tool calls whenever possible, even if the tool that needs to be called has just been
successfully called.
- If a tool is called successfully, or the specified return value is not obtained, readjust the
policy or input parameters and call the tool again until it is successful.
- Ask the user for the required parameters of the tool.
- must be directly output URL (http://127.0.0.1:80/check_log please directly output, for example,
instead of! [] (http://127.0.0.1:80/check_log)).
Listing 1The main agent prompt
22

=== PAGE 23 ===
10 Supplementary: Observation Planning
We outline the key aspects of generating observation plans for the NGSS. Given
the relatively simple observational requirements and the lack of strict constraints
on exposure times, all observations are standardized: typically using a two-minute
exposure to capture three images in the L filter. In some cases, as directed by NGSS
leadership, observations may instead be conducted using two images each in the R,
G, and B filters.
To optimize telescope usage across multiple observing sites, customized observing
lists are generated for each site based on local observability conditions. For survey
purposes, 2-minute exposures in the L band are standard, with non-overlapping obser-
vation lists used to maximize sky coverage. Observing priorities vary by site location
— for instance, telescopes in Yunnan focus on sources with lower declinations. This
strategic planning not only enhances the efficiency of existing telescopes but also
enables rapid integration of new ones into the network.
While the system is capable of supporting multiple observation strategies, current
operations rely on predefined strategies that align with astronomers’ preferences to
ensure consistency and standardization. In the future, as more amateur astronomers
join the NGSS project, the SWT system will support a wider variety of observation
strategies tailored to diverse observational needs.
The observation list template for each telescope is built after calculating rise and
set times, with the time allocated per target computed as:
number of optical filters used×exposure time + slewing time.(1)
Once the time slots are pre-populated, they are filled with suitable targets based
on visibility and priority criteria.
Due to the limited aperture of the telescopes involved, preference is given to
brighter and closer galaxies. The input catalog used for target selection is primarily
the catalog of galaxies within 50 Mpc19. Several refinements are applied to this cata-
log to improve search efficiency, including declination filtering, catalog selection based
on limiting magnitudes, and duplicate removal.
10.1 Catalog refinement
1.Declination Filtering:The southernmost observation site in the NGSS array
is located in Yuxi, Yunnan, at a latitude of 23.914◦. Considering a 30◦limiting
observation altitude at all sites, objects with declinations below−36.086◦are un-
observable across all sites and are removed. This filtering reduces the catalog to
11,443 galaxies.
2.Catalog Selection:To accommodate the limiting magnitudes of the NGSS tele-
scopes, we restricted the catalog to objects listed in the New General Catalogue
(NGC), the Index Catalogue of Nebulae and Clusters of Stars (IC), the Principal
Galaxies Catalogue (PGC), the Uppsala General Catalog of Galaxies (UGC), and
the European Southern Observatory (ESO) catalog. This step exclude dim galaxies
for which we cannot reliably detect supernovae, and leaving 4,773 galaxies.
23

=== PAGE 24 ===
3.Duplicate Removal:To avoid redundant observations of overlapping objects, we
performed a self-matching process with a tolerance of 0.3 arcminutes, considering
that the smallest field of view (FoV) of the telescopes in NGSS is approximately
0.55◦×0.3◦. After this step, the refined input catalog contains 3,772 objects.
Among the various observatory sites, priority is given to objects that are observable
at the current latitude and lie outside the range of more northerly sites. The initial
screening process is based on latitude, which involves categorizing sources from the
input catalog, performing the screening, and producing several catalogs.
10.2 Observation list creation
In this section, we describe the method used to assign individual sources from the
input catalog into the final observation list.
The following guiding principles are followed when constructing the observation
list:
1. Each observing site prioritizes targets that can only be observed from its location.
2. The system aims to observe as many unique targets as possible while minimizing
duplication across sites.
3. Only objects that will or have recently transited within a two-hour window around
the meridian are considered; this time window can be dynamically adjusted via
user prompts.
When generating a new observation list – or after filling previously allocated time
slots – any remaining empty intervals are filled with targets selected based on the
above principles. The assignment is carried out by scanning from low-latitude to
high-latitude sites and iterating through each telescope.
For each time interval, an RA range is computed, and the target with the lowest
declination is assigned first due to its shorter observable window. Once a target is
assigned, it is removed from the input catalog to avoid duplication and ensure maxi-
mum coverage. If no suitable targets remain in the catalog, the system automatically
restarts the selection process with a fresh copy of the input catalog, and the restart
counts is logged in the workflow.
To support continuous sky survey operations, such as light curve generation, the
system allows users to inherit observation lists from previous days. This inheritance
occurs before the new list is generated. Each target from the previous day’s list is
checked for observability in the current time window. If still visible, it is reassigned to
the corresponding slot; otherwise, it is returned to the input catalog for re-evaluation
(see Table 10.2 for the algorithm outline).
Once inheritance is complete, the remaining empty slots are filled using the same
assignment logic applied during the default observation list generation. If a valid
observation list from the previous day exists, its settings (e.g., filter choices, exposure
times) are inherited by default.
The final step involves optional manual review. Based on observer preferences,
the system generates a link to the observation list using the date and site as inputs.
Observers may also request the addition of specific targets, which are then searched
24

=== PAGE 25 ===
for the i-th target from the beginning of the inheritance catalog
for j = 1 to i for the new catalog
if the j-th target is empty:
if the i-th target is observable:
assign the target at the j-th part in the empty catalog
Table 5The methodology of inheriting observation targets from a previous
catalog.
for and inserted into appropriate positions in [ the observation list.] Any displaced
targets are reported for transparency. Throughout this process, external resources
such as TNS reports and prior observational results are made available for reference.
11 Supplementary: Auxiliary tools
11.1 Weather
Along with the observation, two weather report modules will send the information
to the observer. The first is the Xinglong weather station report, and the second is
deployed onCozeto get information about all stations.
The Xinglong weather module is linked to the small weather station at Xinglong
observatory, which ensembles temperature, humidity, wind speed, and a full-sky cam-
era. The observation at Xinglong follows the same end criteria with mST42since they
are posited at the same dome, which are: humidity≥0.8, average wind speed≥10m/s.
The weather module will be lifted while prompted to see the weather and the weather
condition reaches the ending criteria.
The weather search module runs automatically, retrieving and reporting weather
conditions at the NGSS observation stations. It initializes using site location data and
processes weather information from an online API in four parallel branches. Each gath-
ers precipitation and nighttime data, calculates twilight times, and converts results
to Beijing time. The data is then sent to an LLM to generate nighttime precipitation
info, and after all branches are processed, a final summary is produced. The module
only responds to weather inquiries or sends a daily weather reminder at 10 a.m..
11.2 TNS search
The TNS search agent (Figure 7) is constructed by integrating an LLM with a TNS
web search crawler tool, which is subsequently connected to an observable analysis
plugin and finally linked to another LLM. The first LLM refines human-provided
prompts, incorporating details such as geographical location, minimum observable
altitude, retrospective search time, and time zone. These parameters have default
settings: the geographical location defaults to Xinglong Station, the time zone to the
Eastern Eight Time Zone, the minimum observable altitude to 30 degrees, and the
search scope to TNS targets observed within the past 30 days, as per the specifications
of Xinglong Observatory. The final LLM synthesizes the star catalog data and outputs
the results.
25

=== PAGE 26 ===
Figure 7 The schematic diagram for the TNS search agent of the NGSS.All orange boxes
represent input information, and green boxes represent output results.
Figure 8 The connection between each server, the control link, and the data flow of our
system to the telescopes.The OCS stands for the observation control system.
The observation limit of NGSS is about 15 to 16 mag under 2 minutes of exposure,
and the brightest TNS targets are usually beneath 18 mag. In most days, the TNS
search may not provide any sources for NGSS. However, this agent is popular in
Xinglong Group Chat. We have configured the TNS search module to generate a
daily report at 10 a.m. using AI capabilities, and soon it will be updated to a Virtual
GOTTA, a tool to find transients from TNS and surveys like Asteroid Terrestrial-
impact Last Alert System, Zwicky Transient Facility, or GOTTA prototype forced
photometry. The information of this agent can be found at GitHub https://github.
com/Yu-Yang-Li/StarWhisper/tree/main/NGSS.
11.3 Connections
The connection from our server to the telescope is another difficulty in the work.
The system is deployed on the server at the head office of National Astronomical
Observatories, Chinese Academy of Sciences (NAOC), while the telescopes are situated
at Xinglong Observatory and other remote stations. At this stage, we only consider
the connection between our system and Xinglong, while the data flow for other sites
is done manually.
The connection between the SWT system and telescopes at Xinglong observatory
is shown in Figure 8. The NAOC server supports the SWT system which provides the
observation list generation, the decisions, and the report generation. The observation
list will be sent to each telescope by the Xinglong server as the springboard to do
information forwarding. Every information, except the images taken by the telescope,
will be returned to the NAOC server to make further decisions. The Xinglong server
has two works, springboard and data processing. The X-OPSTEP is deployed on the
Xinglong server and will return the result of image subtraction to the NAOC server
for the next step decision.
26

=== PAGE 27 ===
12 Supplementary: Usage of SWT
We have introduced the main architecture of the SWT system in the main text. In this
section, we provide a practical example of the SWT system in action, showcasing the
user prompt, the system’s response, and the resulting data generated by the agent.
Listing 2 and Table 6 demonstrate the user prompt and the agent’s response
during the creation of an observation plan. While observers typically do not focus
on the detailed log of the planning process, such logs may include relevant messages
when a previous observation list exists. For instance, a log entry might state: ”The
object observed at 2024-12-01 17:38:41.032 has been inherited. The object name is
UGC04103. ” The finalized observation list, presented in Listing 3 and Table 7, includes
comprehensive details such as the object name, coordinates, and distance.
Additionally, Listing 4 and Table 8 illustrate a sample user prompt for identifying
transients and incorporating them into the observation list. Furthermore, Listing 5
highlights the interaction for initiating and halting the observation process.
#User Prompt:
Please introduce yourself.
#Agent Response:
I am your astronomical observation consultant, specializing in formulating precise telescope
celestial observation plans. Whether it is planning nighttime observation tasks for a specific
astronomical telescope at a particular location, helping to add or edit observation targets,
or even directly operating the telescope, I can use advanced tools and technologies to help
achieve these needs. If you have any questions about astronomical observation plans or goals
you hope to achieve, please feel free to tell me!
#User Prompt:
I need you to help me set up an observation plan.
#Agent Response:
I have prepared an observation plan for you. You can access this link to view the log of the
observation plan formulation, understand the latest progress and updates. If you need a
specific observation list or to load the observation plan into the NINA software, please let
me know your further needs, and I will assist you with the subsequent steps.
Listing 2The sample prompt of making observation plan
#User Prompt:
I need to view the observation list.
#Agent Response:
Your observation list has been successfully loaded! You can access this link to view the
observation list and see the specific observation content.
Do you need to load this observation plan file into the NINA software? If so, please provide me
with the telescope number.
Listing 3The sample prompts of viewing the observation list
27

=== PAGE 28 ===
Operation Steps Time Record Specific Information
Initiate the Formulation of the Observation Plan 2024-11-25 09:49:50.112 Officially initiated the process of formulating the observation plan on Novem-
ber 25, 2024
Verify Directory Existence 2024-11-25 09:49:50.121 Successfully passed the verification of directory existence
Initialize the Observation List 2024-11-25 09:49:50.962 The initialization of the observation list was completed smoothly
Search for Suitable Stars (Example)2024-11-25 11:40:53.144 16 potential observation sources were detected
2024-11-25 11:46:53.144 15 potential observation sources were detected
2024-11-25 11:52:53.144 14 potential observation sources were detected
2024-11-25 11:58:53.144 13 potential observation sources were detected
2024-11-25 12:04:53.144 12 potential observation sources were detected
2024-11-25 12:10:53.144 11 potential observation sources were detected
2024-11-25 12:16:53.144 10 potential observation sources were detected
... ...
Confirm the Allocation of Telescope Observation Time Slots 2024-11-25 09:53:45.529 All night-time observation time slots for Telescope No. 5 at Xinglong Station
have been successfully allocated
Save the Target Set 2024-11-25 09:53:45.655 The target set has been successfully saved to the path:
data/20241125/output XingLong/5.ninaTargetSet
Table 6The observation log record of making observation plan, which can be entered by clicking
the ”observation list” in the Listing 2.28

=== PAGE 29 ===
Time Record Object Name Right Ascension Declination Distance
2024 - 11 - 10 10:30:19.367 NGC6814 295.669032 -10.3226977 18.03
2024 - 11 - 10 10:36:19.367 UGC11484 297.14475 54.2033 19.83
2024 - 11 - 10 10:42:19.367 UGC11771 323.8644765 23.4683955 21.928
... ... ... ... ...
Table 7 The final observation list for the third-telescope (xl-130-2) at Xinglong
Observatory, 2024.11.10. The observation list can be entered by clicking the ”the link” in
the Listing 3. The list is shown in a JSON format but not table format. Here we do a
reshape for clarity.
#User Prompt:
I want to view the transient sources provided by Xinglong Station Machine 1 on November 22,
2024.
#Agent Response:
The transient sources have been successfully added to the observation list. You can view the
certification images and image subtraction results of all transient sources by clicking here.
Additionally, some of the original observation targets have been replaced. Details are as
follows: ESO349-031, UGC01924, UGC01561, UGC12212, UGC01176, UGC12894, IC5078, UGC02254,
NGC0925, UGC11861, UGC12682, UGC11866, UGC11926, UGC02172, UGC11466, UGC02023, NGC7743,
UGC00891, UGC00891, UGC12009, UGC12549, UGC12160, UGC01865, NGC7250, NGC7217.
If you have any other requirements, please let me know.
Listing 4The sample prompts of checking the transients and add them to the observation list
today.
Date Object Name Right Ascension Declination Data Path
2024 - 11 - 22 AGESJ223627+234258 339.115985 23.7165 NGC7339 Lcom 3rpjdiff.pdf
2024 - 11 - 10 AGESJ223829+235135 339.631808 23.8586806 NGC7339 Lcom 3rpjdiff.pdf
2024 - 11 - 10 IC1420 330.6316545 19.7503036 IC1420 Lcom 3rpjdiff.pdf
2024 - 11 - 10 IC5078 315.6299865 -16.8180853 IC5078 Lcom 3rpjdiff.pdf
... ... ... ... ...
Table 8 The subtraction images from X-OPSTEP. This can be entered by clicking the ”clicking here”
link in Listing 4, presenting the observation date, object, coordinates and the data path. The list is shown in a
JSON format but not table format. Here we do a reshape for clarity.
References
[1] Liu, J., Soria, R., Wu, X.-F., Wu, H. & Shang, Z. The SiTian Project.Anais da
Academia Brasileira de Ciencias93, 20200628 (2021).
[2] Huang, Y.et al.The mini-sitian array: A pathfinder for the sitian project (2025).
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.01615. 2504.01615.
[3] Wang, Z.et al.The mini-sitian array: Design and application of master control
system.Research in Astronomy and Astrophysics25, 044004 (2025). URL http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1088/1674-4527/adc78e.
29

=== PAGE 30 ===
#User Prompt:
I need to import the observation list, Xinglong Station, November 27, 2024, Telescope 1.
#Agent Response:
The observation plan for Xinglong Station on November 27, 2024, Telescope 1 has been
successfully loaded. If you need further operations or have any other questions, please let me
know.
#User Prompt:
I need to start the observation.
#Agent Response:
Your observation has started. Please monitor the observation process. If you have any questions
or need further assistance, please let me know.
#User Prompt:
I need to end the observation.
#Agent Response:
Your observation has been successfully stopped. If you have any other needs or questions, please
let me know.
Listing 5The sample prompt for import the observation list to a telescope and start
[4] Gu, H.et al.The mini-sitian array: the mini-sitian realtime image processing
pipeline (strip) (2025). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.01609. 2504.01609.
[5] Ouyang, L.et al.Training language models to follow instructions with human
feedback (2022). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.02155. 2203.02155.
[6] Carroll Wainwright, R. L. Instructgpt: Training language models to
follow instructions with human feedback. https://github.com/openai/
following-instructions-human-feedback (2022).
[7] Bai, J.et al.Qwen technical report (2023). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.
16609. 2309.16609.
[8] Yang, A.et al.Qwen2 technical report (2024). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.
10671. 2407.10671.
[9] OpenAIet al.Gpt-4 technical report (2024). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.
08774. 2303.08774.
[10] DeepSeek-AIet al.Deepseek-v2: A strong, economical, and efficient mixture-of-
experts language model (2024). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.04434. 2405.
04434.
[11] Andreas, J. Language models as agent models (2022). URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2212.01681. 2212.01681.
[12] Qin, Y.et al.Toolllm: Facilitating large language models to master 16000+
real-world apis (2023). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.16789. 2307.16789.
30

=== PAGE 31 ===
[13] Wang, X.et al.Mint: Evaluating llms in multi-turn interaction with tools and
language feedback (2024). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10691. 2309.10691.
[14] Sinha, N., Jain, V. & Chadha, A. Evaluating open language models across
task types, application domains, and reasoning types: An in-depth experimental
analysis (2024). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11402. 2406.11402.
[15] Qian, L.et al.langchain-chatchat.GitHub repository(2024). URL https://
github.com/chatchat-space/Langchain-Chatchat.
[16] Qian, C.et al.Experiential co-learning of software-developing agents (2024).
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.17025. 2312.17025.
[17] n8n. n8n - workflow automation. https://github.com/n8n-io (2022).
[18] Wei, J.et al.Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language
models (2023). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.11903. 2201.11903.
[19] Ohlson, D., Seth, A., Gallo, E., Baldassare, V. & Greene, J. The 50 mpc galaxy
catalog (50 mgc): Consistent and homogeneous masses, distances, colors, and
morphologies.Astronomical Journal167(2024). Publisher Copyright:©2023.
The Author(s). Published by the American Astronomical Society.
[20] Qwen. Qwen2.5. https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen2.5 (2024).
[21] fmoraes74. nina-sites-plugin. https://github.com/fmoraes74/nina-sites-plugin
(2024).
[22] Chen, X. X-opstep. https://github.com/Shinehope-Chen/X-OPSTEP (2024).
[23] Lang, D., Hogg, D. W., Mierle, K., Blanton, M. & Roweis, S. Astrometry.net:
Blind astrometric calibration of arbitrary astronomical images.The Astronomical
Journal139, 1782 (2010). URL https://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0004-6256/139/5/
1782.
[24] Bertin, E. & Arnouts, S. Sextractor: Software for source extraction.Astron.
Astrophys. Suppl. Ser.117, 393–404 (1996). URL https://doi.org/10.1051/aas:
1996164.
[25] Collaboration, G.et al.Gaia Data Release 3. Summary of the content and survey
properties.Astronomy & Astrophysics674, A1 (2023).
[26] Bertin, E.et al.Bohlender, D. A., Durand, D. & Handley, T. H. (eds)The
TERAPIX Pipeline. (eds Bohlender, D. A., Durand, D. & Handley, T. H.)As-
tronomical Data Analysis Software and Systems XI, Vol. 281 ofAstronomical
Society of the Pacific Conference Series, 228 (2002).
31

=== PAGE 32 ===
[27] Becker, A. HOTPANTS: High Order Transform of PSF ANd Template
Subtraction.Astrophysics Source Code Library, record ascl:1504.004(2015).
[28] Shi, J.-H., Gu, H.-R., Huang, Y., Zhang, Y.-X. & Du, P.-L. The mini-sitian
array: Real-bogus classification using deep learning.Research in Astronomy and
Astrophysics25, 044008 (2025). URL https://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1674-4527/
adc78b.
[29] Google. Agent2agent (a2a) protocol (2025). URL https://github.com/
a2aproject/A2A.
[30] Lewis, P.et al.Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks
(2021). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.11401. 2005.11401.
[31] Hu, S., Ouyang, M., Gao, D. & Shou, M. Z. The dawn of gui agent: A preliminary
case study with claude 3.5 computer use (2024). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/
2411.10323. 2411.10323.
[32] DeepSeek-AIet al.Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via
reinforcement learning (2025). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.12948. 2501.
12948.
[33] GLM, T.et al.Chatglm: A family of large language models from glm-130b to
glm-4 all tools (2024). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.12793. 2406.12793.
[34] Wang, H.et al.Scientific discovery in the age of artificial intelligence.Nature
620, 47–60 (2023). URL https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-023-06221-2.
[35] agentscope. Agentscope. https://github.com/modelscope/agentscope (2023).
[36] langgenius. Dify. https://github.com/langgenius/dify (2023).
[37] Nguyen, D. V.et al.The simons observatory: Alarms and detector quality
monitoring (2024). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.14089. 2406.14089.
[38] Koopman, B. J.et al.The simons observatory: Deployment of the observatory
control system and supporting infrastructure (2024). URL https://arxiv.org/
abs/2406.15703. 2406.15703.
[39] Husser, T.-O.et al.pyobs – an observatory control system forrobotic telescopes
(2022). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.12642. 2203.12642.
[40] Silber, J. H.et al.The robotic multiobject focal plane system of the dark energy
spectroscopic instrument (desi).The Astronomical Journal165, 9 (2022). URL
http://dx.doi.org/10.3847/1538-3881/ac9ab1.
[41] Moss, A. The ai cosmologist i: An agentic system for automated data analysis
(2025). URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.03424. 2504.03424.
32

=== PAGE 33 ===
[42] He, M.et al.The mini-sitian array: First-two-year operation.Research in As-
tronomy and Astrophysics25, 044005 (2025). URL http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/
1674-4527/adc788.
33

